# JSON fixture format

Note that this fixture format is not intended to be used directly, as it has no way of versioning and may change without notice.

The purpose of this document is to give a high-level overview of the concepts used. The schema provides all the details about the JSON structure.

## Schema

The [JS Schema](https://github.com/molnarg/js-schema) can be found in the [schema.js](schema.js) file. It is a declarative way to describe allowed properties and values. The [Fixture Validator](../tests/fixtures-valid.js) automatically checks the fixtures against this schema and does some more tests programatically.

The schema exports a property `VERSION`. Everytime the schema is updated, this version needs to be incremented using [semantic versioning](http://semver.org).

Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, increment the:
1. MAJOR version when you make incompatible schema changes,
2. MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner, and
3. PATCH version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.


## Goals

The JSON fixture format intends to be

* readable by both humans and machines
* easily extendable
* as general as possible to include information for many fixture formats
* abstract where possible, specific where needed


## Directory structure

The manufacturer of a fixture is determined by its toplevel directory (relative to the `fixtures` directory), the fixture key is the filename without extension. Manufacturer data is stored in [manufacturers.json](manufacturers.json).

`register.js` (which is generated by [generate-register.js](../cli/generate-register.js)) is just an index to make searching specific attributes faster.


## Fixture

A fixture's `shortName` must be unique amongst all fixtures.

The `physical` section describes properties not directly used in the DMX protocol, but often in lighting control software to display a preview of the fixtures in action.


### Modes

A fixture can have multiple *modes* (also sometimes called *personalities*) like "Basic 3-channel mode" or "Extended 5-channel mode". Our modes are not allowed to have the word "mode" in them, as it is automatically appended at the end.

A mode can contain the `physical` property to override specific physical data of the fixture. E.g. one mode could set the `panMax` value different than the fixture default.

A mode's `shortName` must be unique amongst all modes of the respective fixture.


### Channels

All channels that are used in one or more modes are listed in `availableChannels`. The modes then only contain a list of the channel keys.

A channel's `defaultValue` is the DMX value that this channel is set to without the user interacting (most often, this will be `0`, but e.g. for Pan and Tilt channels, other values make more sense). Likewise, `highlightValue` specifies the DMX value if a user *highlights* this channel (defaults to the maximum DMX value). This is not available in every software.

`invert` is used to mark a descending value (e.g. Speed from fast to slow). If `constant` is `true`, the channel cannot be changed. Set `crossfade` to `true` if you want to allow smooth transitions between two DMX values being output by the software. This is e.g. not recommended for Gobo wheels, as there can be no *smooth* transition to another Gobo; the wheel will always rotate.

`precedence` specifies to which value the channel should be set if there are two conflicting active cues containing this channel: *HTP* (Highest takes precedence) or *LTP* (Latest (change) takes precedence).


#### Capabilities

A channel can do different things depending on which range its DMX value currently is in. Those capabilities can be triggered manually in many programs, and the `menuClick` property defines how: `start` / `center` / `end` sets the channel's DMX value to the start / center / end of the range, respectively. `hidden` hides this capability from the trigger menu.


#### Fine channels

A channel can list `fineChannelAliases` to specify which channel keys are used to descibe its finer variants. This results in two or more (8 bit) channels being combined into one 16 bit (or 24 bit, ...) channel to increase the resolution of the controlled functionality.

Example: Channel `Dimmer` contains `fineChannelAliases: ["Dimmer 16-bit", "Dimmer 24-bit"]`. Mode "Normal" uses only `Dimmer` in its channel list, mode "Fine" uses `Dimmer` and `Dimmer 16-bit`, mode "Super fine" uses all three.

See the [Generic Desk Channel fixture](generic/desk-channel.json) for a simple application example.


#### Switching channels

A *switching channel* is a channel whose functionality depends on the value of another channel in the same mode.

E.g. in a given mode, the first channel could be used to select auto-programs and channel 2 could be either "Microphone Sensitivity" (if channel 1 is set to *Sound control*) or "Program Speed" (if channel 1 is set to anything else).

To define switching channels, add a `switchChannels` object to all capabilities of the dependency channel (the "Auto-Programs" channel in the example above). This object defines which *switching channel alias* is set to which *available channel key* if this capability is active. The switching channel alias is then used in the mode just like a regular channel. Note that a channel which defines switching channels needs an explicit `defaultValue` to make sure that the switching channel default is also well-defined.

See the [eurolite LED KLS-801 fixture](eurolite/led-kls-801.json) for a (rather) simple application example.
